---
layout: post
title: Testing Fleet Programs
categories:
- blog
---

I have given some thought lately to how fleet action programs will be written, and in 
particular how they will be tested.

The basic principle that I have described elsewhere, is that every 500ms the current
state of the two competing fleets will be made available to both programs. This will
give the last known speed, direction and orientation of each ship and each missile.

Using this information, each program will attempt to avoid incoming missiles, position
them to attack the enemy or to avoid the enemy. Full information to that point in time
is known, so the winning program will be based on the skill of the programmer.

As I said, every 500ms the information about every ship and missile will be given and
each program should give course corrections based on the information. This information
will apply for the coming 500ms.

When a new program is ready for testing (be it a brand new program, or a modification
of an existing one) the programmer will submit it for approval. This will involve
several steps.

* Does it compile without errors?
* Does it run and complete in a reasonable time (less than 300ms)?
* Does it produce valid output for a static opponent?
* Does it produce valid output for a dynamic (but dumb) opponent?
* And perhaps other more complex tests.

If it is accepted for approval then it can be entered into one of several tournaments.

## Debugging

Even if a program passes the basic sanity tests, it still may not work as expected.

I anticipate there being various methods to test a program.

* Single stepping.
* Run time logging.
* Running from a snapshot
* Playback

### Single Stepping

By a 'single step' I mean that given all the data for a 500ms tick, the program can
be run to produce the output for that tick, and then halt. By this means you can
compare the input and the output for that one step.

If you wish the program can then be run for the next 500ms period and the input and
output compared again, for as many ticks as you wish.

Don't confuse this with the 'single step' of a Perl program, I don't see how this 
could be done to single step through individual instructions (but I won't rule it out!)

### Run time logging.

With your own program, you can write to a log file. For example to log the current
state of variables in your program. The log file can then be read to see how your
program performed. This is just like logging by inserting print statements.


### Running from a snapshot

It should also be possible to replay previous games and when an interesting position
is seen a 'snapshot' of the current position can be made. These snapshots can be
used to set up an initial position for your own fleet (and chosen opponent) to see
how well your program copes in that position.

### Playback

Every match between two fleets will be recorded.  How long these recordings will
be kept for will remain to be seen (it will ultimately depend upon storage 
requirements).

These recordings will retain the positions, and the instructions given, for each
fleet for each 500ms period. This will allow an accurate play-back of the actual
match, either in real-time, or slow or fast motion, or single step. The instructions
issued by the two fleets can be examined and (if it is your own fleet) you should
be able to change the program and proceed from a snapshot of the recording to see
how your changes affect your program.

## Special tournaments

The option of running from a snapshot opens up a number of intriguing possibilities.

For example, certain scenarios could be set up. A single ship of your own surrounded
by a fleet of four others. Your task is to write a program that will succeed against
this enemy. A whole set of this type of tournament could be made with prizes or
awards made to the first program to win in this situation.



