---
layout: post
title: Roadmap
categories:
- blog
---

I was describing today to someone how the game will work. I have to admit he has a
point, he described it as 'geeky' and only appealing to a very small number of people.

I want to address this point here, as much for my own benefit as for anyone who may
decide to read it at some point in the future (yes I mean '''you''' :)

During the alpha trial the idea is to allow people to write programs (or clone existing
programs and modify them) to carry out ship-to-ship combat. These matches between
programs will be part of the tournament system that will determine which programs are
the best.

During this trial I agree, it will be very geeky, it may only appeal to a relatively 
small number of people, however it will allow us to investigate how the final game will
run, set in place an infrastructure that will allow a large number of people to play
it. This is the main point however, it will give us a large number of programs that can
be used in the main game by people who may not have any programming skills.

The 'main game' will be a conventional empire building game, build your base, create
your ships, go out, attack other people (AI or 'real') and collect resources.

The difference from all other games of the genre, is that you will be able to have more
control over what your ships do when you are away from the keyboard. For example, you
will be able to look over various 'command routines' (which are effectively the programs
written during the beta phase) and decide how you want your ships to behave when your
empire is attacked when you are away from your keyboard. Do you want them to be aggressive?
Do you want them to have a 'holding action' to delay attacks against your base whilst
conserving the strength of the ships for subsequent attacks. There are many tactics that
can be applied and the tactics can be developed during the beta phase.

In this way, people who have no programming skill will be able to play the game and have
most of the benefits of people who can program and get enjoyment from the game.

I will be developing these concepts over the next few weeks but I can see the benefit
of a game that allows ultimate control over all aspects of the game play from programs
and scripts developed by the community.

My experience with Lacuna Expanse has shown that many people with little or no
programming skill are able to install and run programs written by other people, and
from that, are able to dabble with the programs themselves and learn programming.

If we can do the same with SpaceBotWar, in multiple languages, then I will consider
that a success.

