=head2 User Methods

The following methods are available from C</user>

The User API provides several methods that allow you to create a new account, log in 
log out and change your account details.

=head2 get_session

Obtain a session key. The session key identifies you and allows the server to 
provide persistent information to you. (For example it identifies you in chat or
your player name once you have logged in).

This should be the first call you make to the API.

  {
    "api_key" : "9999-1234-abcd-ef01",
  }



=head3 api_key (required)

Your client's unique API key, identifying it from all other clients. See L<ApiKeys> for
more details.

=head3 RETURNS (session)

  {
    "session_id"    : "1234-dead-face-4567",
  }

The B<session_id> should be used in all subsequent calls. (the example session_id given is
only for demonstration purposes, the API will return a new and unique session_id each
time it is called).


=head2 register

  {
    "session_id"    : "1234-dead-face-4567",
    "username"      : "joebloggs",
    "password"      : "t0pS3cr3t",
    "email"         : "joe_bloggs@example.com',
  }

=head3 session_id (required)

As provided by the user/get_session API

=head3 username (required)

This is the name you will use to log in. At least 3 characters.

=head3 password (required)

Your account password, at least 5 characters including lower-case, upper-case
and numeric characters.

=head3 email (required)

Your email address. This will be used to validate your account

=head3 RETURNS

  {
    



=head2 login

Log into your account

